# Grid5000

On the Grid5000 testbed experiment platform there is no first class support for _Nix_ (right now). _NixOSCompose_ relies at least on the presence of the _Nix_ store on the frontend commands that are not `init` and `build` and access to the Nix package manager for those two. To have it, we need to use some workarounds. Except for the `init` and `build` commands (see details [here](commands.md)), that will requiere a local installation of _Nix_ followed by a `chroot`, the rest of the commands are only relying on Python. It means that for building your distributed environments you will need the reservation of ressource


## Nix installation on frontend

We are going to use the script `nix-user-chroot.sh`. It provides _Nix_ without root permissions on the frontend. At its first call it will install the _Nix_ package manager and create all required folders in your home folder (e.g. `~/.nix/store/`) then change the apparent root directory so that the `nix` command works as expected. All subsequent call to this script will only do the second part followed by the activation of the `nix`command.

```
curl -L -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oar-team/nix-user-chroot-companion/master/nix-user-chroot.sh
chmod +x nix-user-chroot.sh
```

On a interactive session on a node (using `oarsub -I`)
```shell
login@dahu-17:~$ ./nix-user-chroot.sh 
...
Activate Nix
login@dahu-17:~$
```

```admonish note
The call `nix-user-chroot.sh` can be done either on the frontend or on a node. Doing it on the frontend is practical when you want to exploit the _Nix_ store (e.g. when using nix shells) but we advise to avoid building phases on the frontend (any commands that will populate the _Nix_ store).

TODO interesting but not clear enough...
```

## Installation of _NixOSCompose_

The threee following sections describe alternative approaches to install _NixOSCompose_.

### Local installation with a poetry shell

Instal poetry locally in your home
```shell
curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -
```

Clone _NixOSCompose_ project then install all python dependencies thanks to Poetry. Finally activate the virtualenv.

TODO avec le changement de l'arborescence des dossiers les commandes ci dessous vont changer...  `cd nixos-compose/src` ou autre.

```shell
git clone https://gitlab.inria.fr/nixos-compose/nixos-compose.git
cd nixos-compose
poetry install
poetry shell
```

For further use only `poetry shell` is needed.

### Python virtualenv with poetry then poetry shell

Similar to the method above but avoid the poetry instalation in your home directory and instead does it in a virtualenv.

```shell
git clone https://gitlab.inria.fr/nixos-compose/nixos-compose.git
cd nixos-compose
python3 -m venv /path/to/nxcEnv
. /path/to/nxcEnv/bin/activate
pip install poetry
poetry install
deactivate
```

Drops you in the virtualenv with _NixOSCompose_ available.

### Nix chroot on frontal with nix develop

As seen in the local installation it is preferable to use the same `nxc` version that the one used in the project. The downside of this method is that you are loosing access to the specific commands of the platform (e.g. `oarsub` command is not acessible in a nix-shell) so you need either do your reservation of ressources before entering those commands or use multiple terminal or a terminal multiplxer (for instance `tmux`).

```shell
./nix-user-chroot.sh #activate Nix
nix develop .#nxcShellLite
```